welcome to GUI and Inga browsers weekly
call it's 20 29th of January we are one
day later and missing one blue
sweatshirt because of results and I did
not get the a memo about sweatshirt so
we fix that in post
all right let's quickly jump to to my
space base this week's agenda we had a
brief chat about doing a weekly checking
on issues across IPS desktop I profess
web UI companion another GUI
applications we will update rudeness of
projects to give people a pointer that
they can use this this week disco as a
place to bring some pressing matters to
our attention and also to decrease the
pressure of following up on and
responding on issues in a timely manner
we'll try to like respond within a week
but we don't want to get distracted by
this charm teacher do you want to add
anything how did I like budget but now
that I think I think there's a good
summary like making sure that more
people can come to this meeting to bring
up their critical issues and that the
teams can spend more time doing the
deeper work and making bigger changes
happen I have very clear points at time
at which we analyze triage and handle
various reports and getting more people
to come out this meeting at same time so
soon seems like a win-win and will help
us make some of the bigger changes we
need to make in the project one thing
that I've been out here like a hawk
brought up awesome might be fast as
another place to add some maybe list out
the requests here
we should add this notes to you oh yeah
because this software why are there any
other high traffic which is very poor
stuff seems like a lot of web UI stuff
gets recorded in through desktop yeah
anyway yeah it's like that's the danger
point usually we often like move issues
from web UI that's looking maybe I we
got this link in the left bottom corner
report an issue and people your
politicians otherwise those issues are
about web UI one thing let's let's do
like a test week of this to a week or
two and just see how cares if people
feel like if it feels like like things
are languishing and we are concerned
about things going without a response
for too long like let's make sure like
we can do a test like we can have a
github action auto responder on issues
to like hey we usually check these once
or twice a week but you know generally
once a week during this meeting
feel free so we can even add an
autoresponder like that to issues but
let's let's play around with it and just
see what what works and doesn't see if
if if the world goes on fire after we
haven't answered stuff in two days then
clearly we need to figure out some other
way of communicating that before we go
full-on autoresponder let's try it out
for a couple weeks see how it goes
that sounds good should we move to the
next one
subdomain gateways updates that's me I
can I can take this one it's just an
update so background on subdomain
gateways I think like the background is
that we have this problem of
representing content routes on the web
so on the web when you load a website to
your web browser the key primitive for
security is all
origin is protocol hostname and port and
based on those three components a
sandbox is created and when you want to
read or write cookies make cross-site
requests you need to either do that
within a single origin all you need to
have a permission from the external
origin for making those requests the
problem is when you represent ipfs
content on the web the old-school
gateways use the old-school do I have
this I think so so the old-school
gateway is our path based when you have
our origin here and all websites are
under that single origin so that's good
for fetching content north that's good
if you want to do application that
utilizes web api s-- because those who
are web api eyes are confined within a
single origin and some api is require
additional permission and if that
permission is granted its granted for
entire origin so a single web site here
will get requested permission and and
every other web site loaded from half a
gateway will get that as well so our
pragmatic solution right which is
possible and supported by all browser
vendors right now is to make sure the
content route represented by a CD is the
same as origin so origin is protocol
hostname and port
the default port for HTTP is for for
free I believe so
the proposed solution our subdomain
gateways and subdomain gateways
basically solve the problem by creating
a separate origin for each content route
so content identifier lands in subdomain
and every sub resource under that
content route is confined within a
single origin I probably did a better
job explaining it in past if I find it
I'll like it in the notes but this is
what you get today it's the place so we
basically got this naming convention
when you put cid in subdomain then it's
dot and then this ipfs and your domain
name and and that's it you get origin
isolation for free the problem is for
now may be a good idea stration at the
gateway so we got this public gateway a
list created by community and there's a
additional column here which shows which
great will support this subdomain mode
right now it's like the web link which
is provided by actavis project well this
one is from cloud flower someone
contributed one here but remaining ones
are the old school of based gateways
those are perfectly fine gateways
however it's important to understand
that if you are creating a web
application which is using api studs are
sensitive through origin isolation you
should if you are sharing links to those
websites you should use subdomain
gateways and those gateways exist right
now but to create one you need to do
path translation
d'angelico reverse proxy levels usually
it's an engine X configuration which
takes CID from host header and puts it
like as a suffix to the path what we
want to do is to make it seamless for
people so everyone can easily run their
own subdomain gateway and to do that we
want to add support for subdomain
gateways natively to go up your face and
also J's ipfs so there's an open PR here
and we proposed a way for people to
configure the way the gateway
functionality works in a more flexible
way right now you just you just expose a
port and that's it but some people may
want to simply host their own website
which is backed by DNS link and not
return arbitrary content other 12 has by
other people some other people may want
to run subdomain and half gateway using
the same hardware however using
different domains and also the nesting
websites so we came up with this
configuration scheme when you can using
this simple notation enable subdomain
gateway half gateway and also DNS link
website natively in go idea fest so
that's something we will land in a q1
but if anyone is interested how it will
work or plans to run a subdomain gateway
make sure to follow this this issue and
when that lands in go at your passengers
IP of s we will update activist
companion so it here you can see that on
the default list the local host gateway
will be enabled by default so
that we will test if your operating
system and browser vendor supports
sentiments on localhost hostname and if
it works we will enable redirect to that
that will provide origin isolation on
localhost
so that's upcoming in the following
weeks and months on subdomain gateways
and if anyone got any questions we I'm
happy to to chat on IRC on freenode ipfs
in web browsers is the name of the
channel a link is in the notes next one
is awesome
I should like interweave other ones so
that's where I will make it brief so m2m
test for web UI landed the pr is merged
so web UI has end-to-end test for every
screen we test uploads of multiple files
let me maybe
let me quickly oh yeah so here's the
build and yep so we got unit tests here
and then we build web UI and then we run
and twenties against goal and we see you
can pick what version was used for
testing so this is the latest stable
version who go out give us and here we
test it against Jessica fest and it's
also you like the stable version the
next step which should life this week is
to run to run the same test however
enjoys a TFS so there's some like open
TI which I was debugging today but it's
the work in progress
the idea is to
of external test so the juris ipfs every
time someone changes something in Josiah
PFS the part of that that suit will be
running the same test that running the
web you all tested against the head of
joy psyche Affairs using that specific
binary so that will make us like
everyone sleep better at night so I have
to thank you so much for your effort on
this both of you and it looks like you
go do some reviewing going to this is a
this is a dream of mine since I first
joined the project so and you did all
the work to make that dream come true so
I just wanted to give a special thanks
for happened it's really important
moment there milestone in the project
helped the security and for quality
disability thank you to confess as well
is the most asleep throughout - no no
that's they say to like just to finish
up that environment variables that you
can pass to to an end to end tests
against either go out Jefferson Jessup
EFS from NPM or you can just start some
developer version of Jace or go and just
point
testitude at arbitrary endpoint so we'll
probably use this one for Ingo ipfs
because they don't use edgy so that's
the one that's dubbed it and though no
details you read me off when you I I
think that's it I'll stop sharing that's
amazing
next one its review browser design
guidelines yes this is me so and talk to
you about this project previously and
you both participated in one of the
early workshops and I'm here at the
point where the research is mostly
complete so I'm it's it's a pretty good
chunk of work though so um me share a
screen so I think I'm gonna want to
schedule a separate session where we
just go over this work together can you
see this yep alright so this is you know
a table of contacts we started with the
set of research kind of a review of
existing URL bars interviews of people
that work in the space browser designers
at browser teams some PvP experts we
talked we talked with us about our
attitudes our understanding what kind of
the problem space was what the
challenges are gonna be and from there
really walk through you know the set of
set of browsers that exist we picked the
top four by market share and then did an
analysis of kind of similarities and
differences of these as noted some
uniquely differentiating features so
places where some browsers had decided
for a given feature they want to have a
much more fleshed out set of
capabilities to make them
differentiators because that's what
something about I came to what I give us
or any type of p2p protocol support
would be how they how they did that work
and treated it and then coming up with a
criminal scum instead of understanding
what the components are lots of
interviews or had with some interesting
conclusions about URLs and addresses
that I think will inform our work going
forward
but that the most important bit are
these kind of themes and patterns that
that we identified and scheduled meeting
we can do a longer review of this as
browser team but also present this at
the one of the upcoming profess week
least once it's finalized the some of
the some of the bigger themes are you
know obviously around trust so the
existing model has a of the web has a
trust model that while it has pros and
cons is something that we need to
understand when we're loading resources
from ipfs in a regular browser this is a
question that browser vendors gonna have
that we're gonna be able to be able to
have advice and guidance on security
what it was it meaning it's tracking you
know one of the themes that came out of
the research is that that is the thing
that's pretty that seems to have worked
like people are worried about it even as
they use Chrome which is this these
cognitive dissonance kind of happening
about the behaviors that people have and
we're pretty well as technologists
people design software if anywhere that
phenomenon but we're like what does it
mean that that something is distributed
and that's something that you have to
visually communicate so some of the you
know patterns
twos and outs how about access controls
network status is extra important when
it's not just a point to point you know
request response pattern showing
progress when things are indeterminate
so some of these are basics but laying
out these guidelines in a way that
design teams and security teams can walk
through you know walk you through
examples of iconography these aren't
aren't finalized these are we're not
even recommending a specific set of
economic be but we're like what are the
states that things might be in as
resources they being loaded the
designers are gonna have to design for
when they're implementing this number
and browsers what are the you know types
of 'invalid circumstances that the user
might find themselves things like ways
of integrating availability different
states of navigational events during a
load really important so I mean it goes
on on it's really a lot of information
here and so that I and that's one reason
I really want your your feedback in
particular both of you if we're having
worked in the GUI and browser worlds
might be FS for a while so I'll schedule
a separate time but then we'll also show
this with the broader community
it's once it's finalized but I think
it's gonna be hugely useful for us going
forward and we're already talking about
kind of what our next phase would be in
terms of doing mobile app design
guidelines so the one of the things that
came out of this is that we were
focusing on desktop browser
implementation since that's kind of like
the starting point forward where we
started with I profess opinion and
initial work with brave but the nature
of workflows on mobile are really
different we've thought about trying to
fit them into this design guidelines to
start and it really didn't work out
because not only is the user interface
of mobile browsers very very different
in desktop browsers and differs wildly
between mobile browsers but there's also
this those apps are a subset of native
apps on mobile where we have things like
textile and birdie and bunch of other
different projects that are building
native mobile apps on top of IP FS that
might need to be able to communicate
these things and a browser is a subset
of that total set of mobile apps so I
think that phase two is probably going
to be mobile focused set of design
guidelines that apply to
native apps as a whole web browsers as a
specialized subset of that type of
application so more more coming soon
from there and this will probably be
finalized by the end of the month and
then prison I because we clean read blog
post like that the next item on the
agenda is also me what is what is limb
p2p start us I I can give approximate
answer to that one the background is
maybe I'll share my screen and start
opening new tabs cuz that's what I'm
good at
alright so the P 2p web star web so yeah
see see how I change the topic we all
know talking about WebSocket star and
that's important to start here because
in the browser we don't have the HD yet
so the question is how do I discover
other peers how do I ask other peers for
content that I'm not able to connect
directly because those people are maybe
also in web browser and they cannot open
TCP ports so it's a WebSocket starts it
was like a temporary solution for
connectivity in web browser context it
provides means of both announcing
ourselves to our to the rest of the ipfs
network a WebSocket star is server and
the transport so images ipfs it's
transports that you can enable and the
cell it uses a rendezvous server so the
rendezvous server is service that you
are somewhere
and installations are on a port for
WebSocket connections that's useful
because web browser can connect to it so
when Jessica first starts in web browser
and it has this wonderful server
configured somewhere it will connect to
it and it will announce itself hey it's
me and the wonderful server will also
provide a address for that pier and that
address can be used by anyone on ipfs
network for dialing to that node so it's
sort of like a proxy but it's a
basically it's like a rendezvous server
which are also access a relay so it does
that mean that the the client end of
that that's running inside of a web page
for example and can actually serve
blocks yes okay yep so you get an
address which starts with the address of
rendezvous server in the beginning the
wonderful server address is the suffix
of the address and then you got the PID
of your note so basically it's like your
PID is announcing itself at that
wonderful server so it just like an
address anyone can connect to it even
other nodes running in the browser can
connect it so that's why WebSockets is
pretty old
it was created in the beginning of jsapi
first project to just give a base like
give a basic connectivity until you
figured out this peer-to-peer signaling
which Jacob has on his roadmap after I
think it's Reiter's refactor is done so
that being said WebSocket star is the
old school and there the name I forgot
a stylist is basically re-write
websocket style made by an M kg with log
number it's much much a contributed a
better version of WebSocket start some
time ago and we I'm not sure if it
landed or not
but it's it's a better version of
WebSocket style it addresses some
problems we with which you could start
the problem is that we have this plan to
to sunset WebSocket star like totally
the problem with WebSocket star is that
you need to hard code this random server
in your configuration it's a single
point of failure if that wonderful
server is down you lose the connectivity
JFS supports multiple random servers and
at least one needs to work so you can
have like free that gives you more
robustness but still it's like a single
like multiple points of failure
those are centralized signaling servers
are just a temporary thing that we use
we there's this issue in just p2p report
that is created with more details what I
said but better explains about history
of WebSocket star and why we want to
move away from both centralized services
so the problem is that's like Stardust
is better than this old-school WebSocket
style the problem is that it's not fully
drop in the replacement it's it's this
the protocol is the little bit different
so it requires a different set of random
servers and we cannot like simply shut
down old ones and on use the same host
names to start the starburst servers so
it's a it's a it's a replacement but he
logisitics are migrating away given that
we have users who rely on WebSockets tar
are not easy and I don't think we like
committed so much to doing that change
if we plan to replicate those star
protocols anyway I'm not sure if that's
useful explanation but that's the gist
of it so it is the the essential of
connectivity approach is still the same
as WebSocket star but it has some
improvements around fault tolerance and
reliability and they do you have an
understanding of who the existing
WebSocket star users are like how many
people or who are we breaking if we just
shut those around every service service
that we ran down today I'm pretty sure
the thing is that it's actually not ipfs
project it's the p2p project so it's not
just those wonderful service for
WebSocket star protocols are not only
used by IP FL just like us notes but
every project that is using a djeli p2p
so I believe like meta mask may run
their own wonderful servers or they may
also have our let me we provide a
default one and a lot of people are
using that we may get some metrics from
the first team about how many
connections are there from unique IPS
and stuff like that so that doesn't let
the key problem people are using that
it's in a default configuration if in
our examples a lot of people use that
for demos and we cannot simply like shut
it down we if you want to replace
website replace WebSockets dive status
we would have simply create a new set of
Stardust really servers while still
maintaining their the old ones can they
exist in parallel yeah yep because like
a starburst protocol it's like as
separate protocol so they can coexist at
a single node can use both
the I think there's some other work in
like a plan that we like we could simply
like in one that release of JCAP ifs we
could run both and then in the next one
we would remove their WebSocket star but
still around the server's if someone had
but this is orthogonal to any WebRTC
work or connectivity work yeah if it's
using WebSockets and that's the problem
with WebSockets
it's not only signaling it also is used
for pushing bytes so the is web RTC star
which is be better because it's using or
it's using this relay only for like
actually level and signaling and then
there's peer-to-peer WebRTC connection
established so that would be much better
to get that to the point where it's
enabled by default because it would put
less load on our infrastructure on our
like star and less centralization and
probably better local network
performance by far yeah and multiple
could simply run their own signaling
servers without like being taxed too
much for providing that service yeah
okay thanks for thanks for clarifying
I wonder what like what is the I just
saw some references to to the star test
bit and so I was curious if that
actually ended up helping us it was that
laying the groundwork for eventually
getting like client-side WebRTC DHD
things like that but it sounds like it's
the way I see it is that like after
Jacob - b2b project are done with three
factors I think it's worth checking in
with them about this peer-to-peer
signaling what's the time frame for
actually seeing that and then we can
reevaluate
is it worth switching to star based in
the meantime
that's like an open question about
benefit does it provide enough benefits
to to like make it worthwhile
alright I said I do you join manage it
then let p2p meetings for joyously p2p
meetings be great to be able to get an
answer that sooner rather than later so
we haven't understanding kind of what
the timeframes there yeah I should start
by linking it's a month I think it's a
Monday's but Jacob is on call
implementations call as well so I cannot
use that question there and that's
pretty good because Iran is also there
and Alan from JSI DFS will be extremely
interested in that change because that's
a little bit the key connect like the
WebSocket style right now it's a key
connectivity feature for Jays idea
facing web browser basically cool next
one may be compiling on message about
missing that demon is too serious
this is price.i strides file this is an
issue we can skip it
okay it was like I stopped competing on
Firefox nightly and it's not working I'm
stuck here I was like no you're not
you're not stuck that that's exactly
where you should be
so maybe yeah maybe we should revise
that message to make it clear and like
communion still provides benefits even
if there's no local node there's a whole
set of features that companion provides
but it's not really clear from that page
that companion still provides a bunch of
benefits even if there's no local daemon
to connect to the thing is that's on the
screenshot in that tweet let me lecture
especially it's interesting it's a
mobile version of Firefox it's actually
not Firefox not it maybe Firefox for
Android beta but it's not firefox
nightly so that i think i think it's
just firefox android yeah so the thing
is that it's the same UI is the same
extension that's pretty cool you can run
Firefox for Android not Firefox preview
Firefox for Android the
but separate apps on the snare original
one the original one and you can run the
same browser extensions and as in
desktop including help of his companion
but the problem is that like the screen
is created for desktop user you cannot
let go to the console or unless you
wrote at your phone and start the daemon
you can install like there I'll give as
demands for all on the Play Store for
Android one is a dual effects which ipfs
the combines like IP first droid I
tested it it works if you start to them
companion in this Firefox for Android
will detect it and start here it's just
sort of like a mixture of message that
sent that is centered around desktop we
probably could detect that you are
running on Android the problem is like
Firefox for Android is deprecated and
five then the future of Firefox on
Android is something called Firefox
preview it's a different like engine in
different code base and that code base
does not support browser extensions they
add say same same rendering engine but
you can swap out rendering engines
easily yeah I think so it's been done
before I like for iOS course on iOS you
can not like use it's actually more for
Android so on Android they want to be
able to sometimes use whatever the
native rendering engine is and then
sometimes use gecko on different Firefox
based products so you might have a
Firefox based product that uses the
native in or you might have a fire fixed
based product that uses gecko okay yeah
so but it's like mostly a UX problem
somebody was like I was they asked about
mobile and I was like yeah you can do
this combo and you get some stuff I said
I forget to mention ah so you don't need
to actually on this
ipfs droid are
like a diamond you can go to preferences
of an extension in Firefox 400 and
switch them better JCAP FS you won't be
able to use it for browsing websites but
you will be able to like upload a photo
and get a link and share it to someone
on mobile it's a city that's that's
pretty cool that a thing that most
people don't know and like out of the
gate would be pretty rad yeah so that's
like the UX that's an issue about that
including t-rex on Android the problem
is that like I passed it because the
moment like the Firefox for Android was
duplicated I'm like oh man this is an
example of what I think would be cool to
basically ditch all the companion just
for as an example like for companion
remove all the branding make it an IP FS
share and only highlight that one
feature publish anything to ipfs using
the images boom all does this year
that's it share freely whatever you call
it like you know unstoppable chair yeah
we could do that that case I have to go
right at ten and I noticed there's one
more item on the agenda oh yes yes good
screenshot and just like that there's
this spec called sub origins and it had
like a long life like it had a good run
years past but everything comes to an
end and I closed this issue so now let's
take three seconds of silence in memory
of this spec that was never meant to be
oh well some domains we solve all our
problems
all right that's it thank you for
joining thank you all so nice to see you
again good luck with your exams
[Music]
let me wave slowly and stop recording